1. What is API in Web Application? 

APIs are mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of definitions and protocols. For example, the weather bureau’s software system contains daily weather data. The weather app on your phone “talks” to this system via APIs and shows you daily weather updates on your phone.

API stands for Application Programming Interface.

2. What is the role of web server in Web application?

A web server is a computer system capable of delivering web content to end users over the internet via a web browser.
Web servers are primarily used to process and manage HTTP/HTTPS requests and responses from the client system.

other functions:
Store and protect website data
Control bandwidth to regulate network traffic
Server-side web scripting
Virtual hosting


3. What are the http verbs? 

CONNECT
The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.

OPTIONS
The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.

TRACE
The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.

PATCH
The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.

HEAD
Retrieves only the HTTP header of a resource. Applicable to all resources.
The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.

GET
The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
SAFE - IDEMPOTENT

POST
The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
NOT SAFE - NOT IDEMPOTENT

PUT
The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
NOT SAFE - IDEMPOTENT

DELETE
The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
NOT SAFE - IDEMPOTENT

1. Idempotency : An operation is idempotent if performing it multiple times has the same effect as performing it once. GET is inherently idempotent, while PUT and DELETE can be idempotent if designed properly. POST, on the other hand, is not idempotent, as creating a new resource each time will have a different effect.

2. Safety : A safe operation is one that does not modify the state of the server. GET is considered a safe operation, as it does not change anything on the server. However, POST, PUT, and DELETE are not safe, as they can alter server state.


4. Which http verbs are using in Web API?

PUT, POST, GET, DELETE

5. What are the http status codes?  Study on 4XX and 5XX status codes?

An HTTP status code is a server response to a browser’s request. When you visit a website, your browser sends a request to the site’s server, and the server then responds to the browser’s request with a three-digit code: the HTTP status code.

4XX — Client error codes: The server couldn’t find (or reach) the page or website. This is an error on the site’s side. 

5XX — Server error codes: The client made a valid request, but the server failed to complete the request.

4XX — Client Error
400 Bad Request
401 Unauthorized
402 Payment Required
403 Forbidden
404 Not Found
405 Method Not Allowed
406 Not Acceptable
407 Proxy Authentication Required
408 Request Timeout
409 Conflict
410 Gone
411 Length Required
412 Precondition Failed
413 Content Too Large
414 URI Too Long
415 Unsupported Media Type
416 Range Not Satisfiable
417 Expectation Failed
421 Misdirected Request
422 Unprocessable Content
423 Locked
424 Failed Dependency
425 Too Early
426 Upgrade Required
428 Precondition Required
429 Too Many Requests
431 Request Header Fields Too Large
451 Unavailable for Legal Reasons
 	 
5XX — Server Error
500 Internal Server Error
501 Not Implemented
502 Bad Gateway
503 Service Unavailable
504 Gateway Timeout
505 HTTP Version Not Supported
506 Variant Also Negotiates
507 Insufficient Storage
508 Loop Detected

